The Project Gutenberg eBook of Stoles, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Stoles
       Star Stole Book No. 133

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: April 14, 2022 [eBook #67839]

Language: English

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STOLES ***





  _American Thread Co._
  STAR STOLE BOOK No. 133

  _Stoles_

  KNITTED · CROCHETED · HAIRPIN LACE

[Illustration]




_Stoles_

_As beautiful as notes in a new song ... as soft as sweet music when
made with “Dawn” Wools, Nylon or Orlons._

_We have collected a beautiful group for you to knit, crochet, or make
with hairpin lace. We hope you’ll like them._

[Illustration]




 * (Asterisk)--This sign indicates that the instructions immediately
 following are to be repeated the given number of times plus the
 original.

 ** Are used in the same way.




_Adagio--The Collar Stole--Illustrated On Cover_

21 inches x 68 inches


Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
  22 ounces Dk. Violet or color of your choice
  1 pr. knitting needles No. 7

  Gauge: 9 sts = 1¹⁄₂ inches      10 rows = 1¹⁄₂ inches

Cast on 123 stitches (sts), work in pattern as follows:

[Illustration]

=1st Row=: Knit (K) 3, * Purl (P) 3, K 3, repeat from * across row.

=2nd Row=: K 3, K 3 together (tog), * P 3, K 3 tog, repeat from *
across row ending with K 3.

=3rd Row=: * K 3, yarn over (y o), slip (sl) the next st as if to P,
repeat from * across row ending with K 3.

=4th Row=: K 3, * insert needle through next st and y o and K 1, y o, K
1 in same st, sl both y o and st off needle (3 sts made), P 3, repeat
from * across row, ending last repeat with K 3.

=5th Row=: K 3, * P 3, K 3, repeat from * across row.

=6th Row=: K 6, P 3, * K 3, P 3, repeat from * across row ending with K
6.

=7th Row=: K 3, P 3, * K 3 tog, P 3, repeat from * across row, ending
with K 3.

=8th Row=: K 6, * y o, sl 1, K 3, repeat from * across row ending last
repeat with K 6.

=9th Row=: K 3, P 3, * insert needle through next st and y o, K 1, y
o, K 1 in same st, drop both y o and st off needle, P 3, repeat from *
across row ending with K 3.

=10th Row=: Same as 6th row.

=11th Row=: Same as 5th row.

Repeat from 2nd through 11th row until stole measures 66 inches from
beginning ending with 5th row of pattern, bind off in pattern. Block to
measurement.

=Collar=: Cast on 141 sts, K 3, * P 3, K 3, repeat from * across row.
Repeat from 2nd through 11th row same as on stole 5 times.

=Next 5 Rows=: K across each row. Bind off. This is outside edge of
collar. Fold collar in half and place a pin at inside edge. Fold stole
in half and place a pin. Sew collar to stole matching pins.


[Illustration]

  _The American Thread Company_ 260 W. BROADWAY, NEW YORK 13, N. Y.




_Allegro_

20 inches x 66 inches without fringe


Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” BULKY YARN
  16 ounces White or color of your choice
  1 pr. wooden knitting needles No. 11
  Plastic crochet hook size H

Gauge: Each pattern measures 3³⁄₄ inches in width

=1st Section=: Cast on 63 stitches (sts) and work in pattern as follows:

=1st Row=: Knit (K) 1, K 2 together (tog), * K 9, slip (sl) 1, K 2 tog,
pass slip stitch over K st (p.s.s.o.), repeat from * 3 times, K 9, K 2
tog, K 1.

=2nd Row=: K 1, Purl (P) across row to within last st, K 1.

=3rd Row=: K 1, K 2 tog, * K 7, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., repeat from *
3 times, K 7, K 2 tog, K 1.

=4th Row=: Repeat 2nd row.

=5th Row=: K 1, K 2 tog, * yarn over (y o), K 1, repeat from * 4 times,
y o, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., repeat from 1st * 3 times, (y o, K 1) 5
times, y o, K 2 tog, K 1.

=6th Row=: K across row, work should now measure 1¹⁄₂ inches when
blocked. Repeat these 6 rows 23 more times. Place all these sts on
a strand of yarn, cut yarn. Make another section in same manner but
ending with 5th row of pattern, leave on needle, cut yarn. Place right
side of both sections together and with free needle, * sl 1 st from
1st section, sl 1 st from 2nd section, repeat from * until all sts are
on 1 needle. Bind off as follows: attach yarn at beginning of row, K 2
sts tog, K the next 2 sts tog, * pass the 1st st over the 2nd st, K the
next 2 sts tog again having 2 sts on needle, repeat from * until one st
remains. Cut yarn and draw through remaining loop.

[Illustration]

=Edge=: With wrong side of work toward you attach yarn at lower edge
and work loosely a row of sl sts across side, cut yarn. Finish other
long side in same manner.

=Fringe=: Wind yarn over an 8 inch cardboard, cut one end. Using 1
strand, double in half and knot through each st across short end.

=Next Row=: * Take 1 strand of yarn of 1 fringe and 1 strand from next
fringe, knot tog about ¹⁄₂ inch from preceding row of knots, repeat
from * across row. Repeat last row twice. Trim fringe evenly. Finish
other end in same manner.

[Illustration]




_Harmony_

[Illustration]

20 inches x 66 inches without fringe


Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” KNEELING WORSTED
  20 ounces White or color of your choice
  1 pr. knitting needles No. 10

Gauge: 9 garter sts = 2 inches

Cast on 84 stitches (sts) and work in pattern as follows:

=1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Rows=: Knit (K) across each row.

=5th Row=: * Insert needle in st, yarn over (y o) needle 3 times, pull
through st, slip (sl) st off needle, repeat from * across row.

=6th Row=: * Sl 6 sts on right hand needle dropping the y o’s, sl them
back on left hand needle by inserting needle in 3rd, 2nd and 1st st in
front of work passing them over the last 3 sts, then sl the last 3 sts
on left hand needle (thus twisting sts), K 6 sts picking up back loop
of each st, repeat from * across row.

Repeat these 6 rows for pattern until stole measures 66 inches from
beginning ending with the 4th row of pattern, bind off.

=Fringe=: Wind yarn over a 14 inch cardboard, cut one end. Using 3
strands, double in half and knot fringe in every other st across each
end.

* Take half of one group of fringe and half of next group of fringe,
knot together ³⁄₄ inch from 1st row of knots, repeat from * across row,
then repeat from 1st * for another row of knots. Trim fringe evenly.
Finish other end in same manner.

[Illustration]




_Symphony_

[Illustration]

Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” BULKY YARN
  12 ounces Black
  ³⁄₄ yd. White Tubular Jersey or color of your choice

Turn inward a small hem on one cut edge of material and baste together.
Slip stitch edges together. Work opposite side in same manner.

=Fringe=: Cut yarn into 46 inch lengths. With a large needle make a
hole in one corner of material, take 3 strands of yarn, double in half,
loop through hole, draw ends through loop tightly. * Make another hole
about ¹⁄₂ inch from previous hole, take 3 strands of yarn, double in
half, loop through hole, draw ends through loop tightly, repeat from *
3 times. * Make another hole about 1¹⁄₄ inches from previous hole, make
a fringe in hole in same manner, repeat from * 19 times (last fringe
should be about 2 inches from next corner). Work 4 more fringes in same
manner ¹⁄₂ inch apart having last fringe in corner. Repeat from 1st *
all around ending to correspond.

=2nd Row=: Take half of one group of fringe and half of next group
of fringe and knot together about 1 inch from previous row of knots.
Repeat 2nd row 5 times. Trim fringe evenly.




_Crescendo_

19 INCHES x 66 INCHES WITHOUT FRINGE

Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
  20-ounces Violet or color of your choice
  1 pair knitting needles No. 13
  1 double pointed needle

Gauge: 1 cable crossing = 1¹⁄₄ inches

Cast on 100 stitches (sts).

=1st Row=: Knit (K) across row.

=2nd Row=: K 2, Purl (P) to within 2 sts, K 2.

=3rd Row=: K 2, * slip (sl) 3 sts on a double pointed needle and hold
in back of work, K 3, K 3 sts from double pointed needle, repeat from *
across row to within 2 sts, K 2.

=4th Row=: Same as 2nd row.

=5th Row=: K across row.

=6th Row=: Same as 2nd row.

=7th Row=: K 5, * sl 3 sts on a double pointed needle and hold in front
of work, K 3, K 3 sts from double pointed needle, repeat from * to
within 5 sts, K 5.

=8th Row=: Same as 2nd row.

Repeat these 8 rows until stole measures 66 inches, then K 1 row, P 1
row. Bind off loosely.

=FRINGE=: Wind yarn over an 8 inch cardboard, cut one end. Using 6
strands, double in half and loop through each cable crossing on short
sides.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




_Contralto_

[Illustration]

64 inches in length

Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” BULKY YARN
  20 ounces Light Blue or color of your choice
  1 pr. wooden knitting needles No. 11
  1 double pointed needle
  Aluminum crochet hook size I

Gauge: 7 garter sts = 2 inches 5 garter st rows = 1 inch

Cast on 30 stitches (sts) and work in garter st [Knit (K) each row] for
11 inches.

=Next Row=: Increase 5 sts evenly spaced. Work in pattern as follows:

=1st Row=: K 5, * slip (sl) 1, K 1, pass slip st over K st (p.s.s.o.),
yarn over (y o), K 1, y o, K 2 together (tog), K 5, repeat from *
across row.

=2nd Row=: K 5, * Purl (P) 5, K 5, repeat from * across row. Repeat 1st
and 2nd rows twice.

=7th Row=: K 5, * sl the next 3 sts on a double pointed needle and
hold in back of work, K the next 2 sts, replace the last st on double
pointed needle onto the left hand needle and K this st, K the 2
remaining sts from opposite end of double pointed needle, K 5, repeat
from * across row.

=8th Row=: Same as 2nd row. Repeat the last 8 rows once.

=17th Row=: Increase (inc) in 1st st, K 4, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o,
K 1, y o, K 2 tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=18th Row=: Same as 2nd row but end with P 1.

=19th Row=: Increase in 1st st, then work same as 1st row.

=20th Row=: Same as 2nd row but end with P 1, inc in last st.

=21st Row=: Inc in 1st st, K 2, then work the remainder of row same as
1st row.

=22nd Row=: Same as 2nd row but end with P 3, inc in next st.

=23rd Row=: Slip 1st 3 sts on a double pointed needle and hold in
back of work, K the next 2 sts, replace the last st on double pointed
needle onto left hand needle and K this st, K the 2 remaining sts
from opposite end of double pointed needle, K 5, * sl the next 3 sts
on double pointed needle and hold in back of work, K the next 2 sts,
replace the last st on double pointed needle onto left hand needle and
K this st, K the 2 remaining sts from opposite end of double pointed
needle, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=24th Row=: Same as 2nd row but end with P 5.

=25th Row=: Inc in 1st st, K 1, y o, K 1, y o, K 2 tog, then work same
as 1st row.

=26th Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 2.

=27th Row=: Inc in 1st st, K 1, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K
2 tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=28th Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 2, inc
in next st.

=29th Row=: Inc in 1st st, K 3, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K
2 tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=30th Row=: Same as 2nd row.

[Illustration]

=31st Row=: Same as 7th row.

=32nd Row=: Same as 2nd row.

Repeat from the 17th through the 32nd row 3 times.

Repeat from the 17th through the 24th row once.

=Next Row=: K 2, y o, K 1, y o, K 2 tog, then work same as 1st row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 1.

=Next Row=: K 1, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K 2 tog, K 5,
repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 1.

=Next Row=: K 1, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K 2 tog, K 5,
repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 1.

=Next Row=: K 1, * sl next 3 sts on a double pointed needle and hold in
back of work, K 2, replace the last st on double pointed needle onto
left hand needle and K this st, K the 2 remaining sts from opposite end
of double pointed needle, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 1.

=Next Row=: K 1, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K 2 tog, K 5,
repeat from * across row. Repeat last 8 rows 12 times.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 1.

=Next Row=: K 2 tog (y o, K 2 tog) twice, K 5, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y
o, K 1, y o, K 2 tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: (K 2 tog) 3 times, K 4, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y
o, K 2 tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending last repeat
with P 2.

=Next Row=: K 7, * cable twist over next 5 sts, K 5, repeat from *
across row.

=Next Row=: K 5, * P 5, K 5, repeat from * across row ending with P 2
tog.

=Next Row=: K 2 tog, K 4, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K 2
tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: K 5, * P 5, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: K 2 tog, K 3, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K 2 tog,
K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 4.

=Next Row=: K 2 tog, K 2, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K 2
tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 3.

=Next Row=: K 2 tog, K 1, * cable twist over next 5 sts, K 5, repeat
from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 2.

=Next Row=: K 2 tog, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K 2 tog, K
5, repeat from * across row. Repeat the last 16 rows 3 times.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending with K 1.

=Next Row=: K 2 tog (y o, K 2 tog) twice, K 5, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y
o, K 1, y o, K 2 tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: (K 2 tog) 3 times, K 4, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y
o, K 2 tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row ending last repeat
with P 2.

=Next Row=: K 7, * cable twist over next 5 sts, K 5, repeat from *
across row.

=Next Row=: K 5, * P 5, K 5, repeat from * across row ending with P 2
tog.

=Next Row=: K 2 tog, K 4, * sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., y o, K 1, y o, K 2
tog, K 5, repeat from * across row.

=Next Row=: Same as 2nd row.

=Next Row=: Same as 1st row.

=Next Row=: Same as 2nd row.

=Next Row=: Same as 1st row.

=Next Row=: Same as 2nd row.

=Next Row=: Same as 7th row.

=Next Row=: Same as 2nd row.

=Next Row=: Same as 1st row. Repeat the last 8 rows once. Repeat the
2nd row and 1st row once.

=Next Row=: K across row decreasing 5 sts evenly spaced. Work even in
garter st until garter st section measures 11 inches ending on right
side, bind off.

Fold each garter st section in half on wrong side. Sew side edges
together. Turn inside out and sew top edge of pockets about 1 inch in
from each side. With right side of work toward you and working along
curved edge, attach yarn at top of pocket and work a row of single
crochet (sc) along curved edge to top of other pocket.




_Sonata_

[Illustration]

22 inches x 68 inches without fringe

Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” or “CLOVERLEAF” NYLON or
  NYLON POMPADOUR or
  “DAWN” MEDIUM WEIGHT POMPADOUR or
  “DAWN” BABY YARN
  10 ounces BABY LAVENDER or ORCHID or color of your choice
  1 pr. plastic knitting needles No. 6

Gauge: 6 garters sts = 1 inch

Cast on 133 stitches (sts) and work in garter st [knit (K) each row]
for 1¹⁄₄ inches, then work in pattern as follows:

=1st Row=: K 7, ** yarn over (y o), K 1, * y o twice, K 1, repeat from
* 4 times, y o, K 8, repeat from ** across row.

=2nd Row=: ** K 8, drop y o from previous row off needle (all y o’s are
dropped without working them), K 1, * drop the next 2 y o’s off needle,
K 1, repeat from * 4 times, drop the next y o off needle, repeat from
** across row ending with K 7.

=Next 4 Rows=: K across each row.

=7th Row=: K 14, ** y o, K 1, * y o twice, K 1, repeat from * 4 times,
y o, K 8, repeat from ** across row ending last repeat with K 15.

=8th Row=: K 15, ** drop y o off needle, K 1, * drop the next 2 y o’s
off needle, K 1, repeat from * 4 times, drop the next y o off needle, K
8, repeat from ** across row ending last repeat with K 14.

=9th through 13th Rows=: K across each row.

Repeat last 13 rows 33 times.

Repeat 1st and 2nd rows once. Work even in garter st for 1¹⁄₄ inches,
bind off. Block to measurements.

=Fringe=: Wind yarn over a 10 inch cardboard, cut one end.

Using 5 strands, double in half and knot through center st of last 2
rows at lower edge every 5th st across end.

* Take half of one group of fringe and half of next group of fringe,
knot together ¹⁄₂ inch from 1st row of knots, repeat from * across row.
Repeat last row of knots twice, trim evenly. Finish opposite end to
correspond.

[Illustration]




_Waltz_

[Illustration]

[Illustration]


Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” BULKY YARN
  7 ounces Buttercup for 15 inch length cape
  8 ounces Buttercup for 19 inch length cape and
  The Famous “PURITAN” STAR SPANGLED MERCERIZED CROCHET COTTON,
   Article 40
  2 balls Gold Spangle or colors of your choice
  1--4 inch hairpin lace staple
  1--3 inch hairpin lace staple
  1--2 inch hairpin lace staple
  Plastic crochet hook size F
  Steel crochet hook No. 7
  2 hooks and eyes

=Hairpin Lace=: Make a loop at end of yarn and place left prong of
staple in loop just made, wind yarn around right prong of hairpin
staple, insert plastic crochet hook in loop, yarn over hook and draw
loop through keeping work at center of staple, * drop loop from hook,
turn staple ¹⁄₂ turn to the left, pick up the dropped loop at center,
yarn over and pull through loop, insert hook through top part of loop
on left hand prong, yarn over and pull through (2 loops on hook), yarn
over and pull through both loops completing the single crochet (sc),
repeat from * for desired length.

All strips are worked with Buttercup and size F hook.

For 15 inch length cape work 1st 5 strips.

For 19 inch length cape work 6 strips.

=1st Strip=: With 2 inch staple work a length of hairpin lace having 89
loops on each side of staple.

=2nd Strip=: With 2 inch staple work a length having 133 loops on each
side of staple.

=3rd Strip=: With 3 inch staple work a length having 155 loops on each
side of staple.

=4th Strip=: With 3 inch staple work a length having 177 loops on each
side of staple.

=5th Strip=: With 4 inch staple work a length having 199 loops on each
side of staple.

=6th Strip=: With 4 inch staple work a length having 221 loops on each
side of staple.

=Note=: When working strips, twists are taken out of all groups of
loops and twist is left in all single loops.

This will not be referred to again.

=Short Cape=: With steel crochet hook attach Gold Spangle in 1st loop
of the 2 inch hairpin lace strip of 89 loops, sc in same space, 1 sc
in each of the next 2 loops, * ch 1, 1 sc in each of the next 3 loops,
repeat from * across row ending last repeat with 1 sc in each of the
next 2 loops, cut thread.

Working on opposite side of same strip attach Gold Spangle in 1st
hairpin lace loop, * ch 5, sc in next loop, repeat from * across row,
cut thread.

=2nd Strip=: With Gold Spangle and 2 inch hairpin lace strip of 133
loops, attach thread in 1st loop, ch 2, sc in last loop worked of 1st
strip, ch 2, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 2nd strip, * ch 2, sc
in next loop of 1st strip, ch 2, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 2nd
strip, repeat from * once, ** ch 2, sc in next loop of 1st strip, ch 2,
sc through next 5 hairpin lace loops of 2nd strip, * ch 2, sc in next
loop of 1st strip, ch 2, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 2nd strip,
repeat from * 6 times, repeat from ** 9 times, ch 2, sc in next loop of
1st strip, ch 2, sc through next 5 hairpin lace loops of 2nd strip, *
ch 2, sc in next loop of 1st strip, ch 2, sc in next hairpin lace loop
of 2nd strip, repeat from * 3 times, cut thread. Working on opposite
side of 2nd strip, attach Gold Spangle through 1st 3 loops, * ch 5, sc
in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, ** ch 5, sc through next 5 loops,
* ch 5, sc in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, repeat from ** 9 times,
ch 5, sc through next 3 loops, cut thread.

=3rd Strip=: With Gold Spangle and 3 inch hairpin lace strip of 155
loops, attach thread in 1st hairpin lace loop, ch 2, sc in last loop
worked of 2nd strip, ch 2, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 3rd strip,
* ch 2, sc in next loop of 2nd strip, ch 2, sc in next hairpin lace
loop of 3rd strip, repeat from * once, ** ch 2, sc in next loop of 2nd
strip, ch 2, sc through next 7 hairpin lace loops of 3rd strip, * ch 2,
sc in next loop of 2nd strip, ch 2, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 3rd
strip, repeat from * 6 times, repeat from ** 9 times, ch 2, sc in next
loop of 2nd strip, ch 2, sc through next 7 hairpin lace loops of 3rd
strip, * ch 2, sc in next loop of 2nd strip, ch 2, sc in next hairpin
lace loop of 3rd strip, repeat from * 3 times, cut thread. Working on
opposite side of 3rd strip attach Gold Spangle through 1st 4 loops, *
ch 7, sc in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, ** ch 7, sc through next
7 loops, * ch 7, sc in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, repeat from **
9 times, ch 7, sc through next 4 loops, cut thread.

=4th Strip=: With Gold Spangle and 3 inch hairpin lace strip of 177
loops, attach thread in 1st hairpin lace loop, ch 3, sc in last loop
worked of 3rd strip, ch 3, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 4th strip,
* ch 3, sc in next loop of 3rd strip, ch 3, sc in next hairpin lace
loop of 4th strip, repeat from * once, ** ch 3, sc in next loop of 3rd
strip, ch 3, sc through next 9 hairpin lace loops of 4th strip, ch 3,
sc in next loop of 3rd strip, ch 3, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 4th
strip, repeat from * 6 times, repeat from ** 9 times, ch 3, sc in next
loop of 3rd strip, ch 3, sc through next 9 hairpin lace loops of 4th
strip, * ch 3, sc in next loop of 3rd strip, ch 3, sc in next hairpin
lace loop of 4th strip, repeat from * 3 times, cut thread. Working on
opposite side of 4th strip, attach Gold Spangle through 1st 5 loops, *
ch 7, sc in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, ** ch 7, sc through next
9 loops, * ch 7, sc in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, repeat from **
9 times, ch 7, sc through next 5 loops, cut thread.

=5th Strip=: With Gold Spangle and 4 inch hairpin lace strip of 199
loops, attach thread in 1st loop, ch 3, sc in last loop worked of 4th
strip, ch 3, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 5th strip, * ch 3, sc
in next loop of 4th strip, ch 3, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 5th
strip. Repeat from * once, ** ch 3, sc in next loop of 4th strip, ch 3,
sc through next 11 hairpin lace loops of 5th strip, * ch 3, sc in next
loop of 4th strip, ch 3, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 5th strip,
repeat from * 6 times, repeat from ** 9 times, ch 3, sc in next loop of
4th strip, ch 3, sc through next 11 hairpin lace loops of 5th strip, *
ch 3, sc in next loop of 4th strip, ch 3, sc in next hairpin lace loop
of 5th strip, repeat from * 3 times, cut thread. Working on opposite
side of 5th strip, attach Gold Spangle through 1st 6 loops, * ch 9, sc
in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, ** ch 9, sc through next 11 loops,
* ch 9, sc in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, repeat from ** 9 times,
ch 9, sc through next 6 loops, cut thread.

=Neck Band=: With wrong side of 1st row toward you attach Gold Spangle
in 1st sc, sc in same space, then work 1 sc in each sc and in each ch 1
space, ch 1 to turn all rows.

=Next Row=: Working over entire st by inserting hook under entire st,
work 1 sc in each sc.

=Next 5 Rows=: 1 sc in each sc.

=Next Row=: 1 slip stitch (sl st) in each sc, cut thread. Sew 2 hooks
and eyes on wrong side of neck band.

=Long Cape=: Work 1st 5 strips same as short cape. With Gold Spangle
and 4 inch hairpin lace strip of 221 loops, attach thread in 1st loop,
ch 4, sc in last loop worked of 5th strip, ch 4, sc in next hairpin
lace loop of 6th strip, * ch 4, sc in next loop of 5th strip, ch 4, sc
in next hairpin lace loop of 6th strip, repeat from * once, ** ch 4, sc
in next loop of 5th strip, ch 4, sc through next 13 hairpin lace loops
of 6th strips, * ch 4, sc in next loop of 5th strip, ch 4, sc in next
hairpin lace loop of 6th strip, repeat from * 6 times, repeat from **
9 times, ch 4, sc in next loop of 5th strip, ch 4, sc through next 13
hairpin lace loops of 6th strip, * ch 4, sc in next loop of 5th strip,
ch 4, sc in next hairpin lace loop of 6th strip, repeat from * 3 times,
cut thread. Working on opposite side of 6th strip attach Gold Spangle
through 1st 7 loops, * ch 9, sc in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, **
ch 9, sc through next 13 loops, * ch 9, sc in next loop, repeat from
* 6 times, repeat from ** 9 times, ch 9, sc through next 7 loops, cut
thread. Work neck band same as short cape.




_Concerto_

18 inches x 66 inches without fringe


Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” NYLON or NYLON POMPADOUR or
  “DAWN” SWEATER & SOCK YARN
  (“SANFORLAN” WON’T SHRINK OUT OF FIT)
  13 ounces Lt. Blue or Baby Blue or color of your choice
  Plastic crochet hook size E

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Gauge: 3 popcorn sts = 1 inch

Chain (ch) 113, double crochet (dc) in 8th stitch (st) from hook, *
ch 2, skip 2 sts of ch, dc in next st, repeat from * across row (16
meshes), ch 4, turn.

=2nd Row=: Dc in next dc, ch 1, dc in same space, ch 1, dc in same
space, ch 1, dc in next dc, * ch 1, 3 dc with ch 1 between each dc in
next dc (shell), ch 1, dc in next dc, repeat from * once, ** ch 1,
popcorn st in next dc (popcorn st: 6 dc in same space, drop loop from
hook, insert hook in 1st dc, pick up loop and pull through), ch 2,
popcorn st in next dc, ch 2, popcorn st in next dc, ch 1, dc in next
dc, * ch 1, shell in next dc, ch 1, dc in next dc, repeat from * twice,
repeat from ** 3 times, ending last repeat with ch 1, skip 1 st of end
ch, dc in next st, ch 4, turn.

=3rd Row=: * Dc in center dc of next shell, ch 1, skip last dc of same
shell, shell in next dc, ch 1, repeat from * twice, dc in next popcorn
st, * ch 2, dc in next popcorn st, repeat from * once, ch 1, shell in
next dc, ch 1, repeat from beginning 3 times, * dc in center dc of next
shell, ch 1, skip last dc of same shell, shell in next dc, ch 1, repeat
from * once, dc in center dc of next shell, ch 1, dc in 3rd st of end
ch, ch 4, turn.

=4th Row=: Shell in next dc, ch 1, dc in center dc of next shell, * ch
1, skip last dc of same shell, shell in next dc, ch 1, dc in center dc
of next shell, repeat from * once, ** ch 1, popcorn st in dc over the
popcorn st of 2nd row below, * ch 2, popcorn st in next dc, repeat from
* once, * ch 1, dc in center dc of next shell, ch 1, skip last dc of
same shell, shell in next dc, repeat from * twice, ch 1, dc in center
dc of next shell, repeat from ** 3 times ending last repeat with ch 1,
dc in 3rd st of end ch, ch 1, turn.

Repeat the 3rd and 4th rows until stole measures 66 inches ending with
4th row of pattern.

=Next Row=: * Dc in center dc of next shell, ch 2, skip last dc of
same shell, dc in next dc, ch 2, repeat from * twice, * dc in next
popcorn st, ch 2, repeat from * twice, dc in next dc, ch 2, repeat from
beginning 3 times, * dc in center dc of next shell, ch 2, skip last dc
of same shell, dc in next dc, ch 2, repeat from * once, dc in center dc
of next shell, ch 2, dc in 3rd st of end ch (46 meshes), cut yarn.

=Fringe=: Wind yarn over an 18 inch cardboard, cut one end. Using 8
strands, double in half and knot through every other mesh of last row.

=Next Row=: * Take half of one group of fringe and half of next group
of fringe, knot together ¹⁄₂ inch from 1st row of knots, repeat from *
across row.

=Next Row=: Take each group of fringe and knot about ¹⁄₂ inch from last
row of knots.

=Next Row=: * Take half of one group of fringe and half of next group
of fringe, knot together ¹⁄₂ inch from last row of knots, repeat from *
across row. Trim fringe evenly. Finish opposite end to correspond.




_Minuet_

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” SWEATER & SOCK YARN
  (“SANFORLAN”--WON’T SHRINK OUT OF FIT) or
  “DAWN” NYLON or NYLON POMPADOUR
  7-ounces Med. Pink or Lt. Pink or color of your choice.
  1 pair knitting needles No. 7
  3 hooks and eyes, 2 yds. 3 inch satin ribbon.
  Steel crochet hook No. 1

Gauge: 11 sts = 2 inches 7 rows = 1 inch

Starting at neck edge cast on 181 stitches (sts) and work 7 rows in
stockinette st [Knit (K) 1 row, Purl (P) 1 row].

=8th Row=: K across row on Purl side to form a ridge.

=Next 8 Rows=: Work in stockinette st starting with a K row.

=17th Row=: K 36, * increase 1 st in next st, K 17, repeat from * 5
times, increase 1 st in next st, K 36.

=Next 7 Rows=: Work even in stockinette st starting with a P row.

=25th Row=: K across row, increasing 7 sts and keeping increases in
line with previous increases.

Repeat last 8 rows twice.

=Next 4 Rows=: Work even in stockinette st.

Repeat from 8th row 3 more times, having 7 increases in each increasing
row keeping increases in line with previous increases.

Repeat from 8th through 29th row once.

=Next Row=: K across row on Purl side.

=Next 7 Rows=: Work even in stockinette st. Bind off loosely.

=Finishing=: Fold along first ridge at neck edge, turn under the first
7 rows and sew to form hem. Fold along last ridge and hem. Now fold
along each of the 4 center ridges to form 1¹⁄₄ inch tucks and sew in
place. At right front edge sew 1st tuck ¹⁄₂ inch below top ridge, sew
2nd tuck ¹⁄₂ inch below ridge of 1st tuck. Pin next 2 ridges together
and sew to top corner. Finish left front edge in same manner. Tack
tucks in position 5 inches in from front edge. Work a row of single
crochet (sc) along front edges. Sew hooks and eyes in position. Finish
with bow as illustrated.




_Fantasy_

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

18 inches x 60 inches without fringe

Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” ORLON or ORLON POMPADOUR
  High Bulk Fingering Yarn
  7 ounces White or color of your choice
  Plastic crochet hook size G or H

Chain (ch) 256 (to measure about 61 inches), double crochet (dc) in 6th
stitch (st) from hook, * ch 1, skip 1 st of ch, dc in next st of ch,
repeat from * to end of ch (126 meshes), ch 2, turn.

=2nd Row=: Draw up a loop in 2nd st from hook, in 1st dc in next ch 1
space and in next dc (5 loops on hook), yarn over and draw through all
loops at one time, ch 1, * draw up a loop through the ch 1 just made
(the ch 1 is termed the eye of star st), draw up a loop in same st
already worked in, in next ch 1 space and in next dc (5 loops on hook),
yarn over and draw through all loops at one time, ch 1, repeat from *
across row ending last star st by drawing a loop through 3rd st of end
ch, ch 4, turn.

=3rd Row=: Dc in eye of next star st, * ch 1, dc in eye of next star
st, repeat from * across row ending row with ch 1, dc in turning ch, ch
2, turn.

Repeat 2nd and 3rd rows until work measures 18 inches ending with a
mesh row, cut yarn.

=Fringe=: Wind yarn over a 3 inch cardboard, cut one end. Using 4
strands double in half and loop through each row on each short end.




_Metron_

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

32 inches x 32 inches without fringe

Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” SWEATER & SOCK YARN
  (SANFORLAN--“WON’T SHRINK OUT OF FIT”) or
  “DAWN” NYLON or NYLON POMPADOUR
  8 ounces White or color of your choice
  1 pr. knitting needles No. 9

Gauge: 5 garter sts = 1 inch

Cast on 137 stitches (sts) loosely and Knit (K) 1 row.

=2nd Row=: K 4, * yarn over (y o), slip (sl) 1, K 2 together (tog),
pass slip stitch over K stitch (p.s.s.o.), y o, K 3, repeat from *
across row ending last repeat with K 4.

=3rd Row=: K across row.

=4th Row=: K 1, * y o, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., y o, K 3, repeat from *
across row ending last repeat with K 1.

=5th Row=: K across row.

Repeat the last 4 rows 10 times.

=Next Row=: K 4, * y o, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., y o, K 3, repeat from
* twice, y o, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., y o, K 87, * y o, sl 1, K 2 tog,
p.s.s.o., y o, K 3, repeat from * twice, y o, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o.,
y o, K 4.

=Next Row=: K across row.

=Next Row=: K 1, * y o, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., y o, K 3, repeat from
* twice, y o, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., y o, K 93, * y o, sl 1, K 2 tog,
p.s.s.o., y o, K 3, repeat from * twice, y o, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o.,
y o, K 1.

=Next Row=: K across row. Repeat the last 4 rows 47 times. Repeat 2nd,
3rd, 4th and 5th rows 10 times, then repeat 2nd, 3rd and 4th rows once,
bind off.

=Fringe=: Wind yarn over an 8¹⁄₂ inch cardboard, cut one end. Using 4
strands, double in half and knot through each hole across starting end
and finishing end. Cut strands same length for each side but place 1st
fringe in 1st hole, * skip next hole, place a fringe in next garter st
row, skip next hole, place a fringe in next hole, repeat from * across
side. Finish opposite side in same manner. * Using half of 1 group of
fringe and half of next group of fringe knot together about ¹⁄₂ inch
from last row of knots, repeat from * all around.




_Lyric_

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

19 inches x 64 inches without fringe

Materials Required:

AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY

  “DAWN” BABY YARN or
  “DAWN” MEDIUM WEIGHT POMPADOUR
  12 ounces Baby Pink or color of your choice
  Steel crochet hook No. 0

Gauge: Each strip measures 2¹⁄₂ inches in width

=1st Strip--1st Half=: Chain (ch) 10, join to form a ring, ch 3, work
17 double crochet (dc) in ring, join, turn.

=2nd Row=: Ch 4, dc in next dc, * ch 1, dc in next dc, repeat from * 7
times, ch 5, dc in same space, ch 1, turn.

=3rd Row=: 1 single crochet (sc), ch 5, 4 sc in large loop, * 1 sc, ch
4, 1 sc in next ch 1 space, 2 sc in next ch 1 space, repeat from *
once, 1 sc, ch 4, 1 sc in next ch 1 space, 1 sc in next ch 1 space, ch
7, turn, skip 2 sc, the ch 4 and 2 sc, slip stitch (sl st) in next sc,
ch 3, turn, work 8 dc over loop, ch 3, sl st in same loop, sc in next
ch 1 space already worked in 1 sc, ch 4, 1 sc in next ch 1 space, 2 sc
next ch 1 space, ch 5, turn.

=4th Row=: Skip 3 sc, ch 4 and 2 sc, dc in next ch 3 loop, * ch 1 dc in
next st, repeat from * 8 times, ch 5, skip 1 sc, ch 4 and 2 sc, sl st
in next sc, ch 1, turn.

Repeat the 3rd and 4th rows until there are 32 scallops.

=Next Row=: 4 sc, ch 5, 4 sc in large loop, * 1 sc, ch 4, 1 sc in next
ch 1 space, 2 sc in next ch 1 space, repeat from * 3 times, 1 sc, ch
4, 1 sc in next loop, working along side of strip, * 4 sc, ch 5, 4 sc
in next large loop, 1 sc, ch 4, 1 sc in next loop, repeat from * to
center, cut yarn.

=1st Strip--2nd Half=: With wrong side of work toward you, attach yarn
in last dc of last loop of 2nd row of 1st half, * ch 1, dc in next st,
repeat from * 8 times, ch 5, join in 3rd st of ch at beginning of 2nd
row, ch 1, turn.

=3rd and 4th Rows=: Same as 3rd and 4th rows of 1st half of strip.
Repeat the 3rd and 4th rows until there are 32 scallops.

=Next Row=: Same as last row of 1st half of strip.

=2nd Strip--1st Half=: Work same as 1st half of 1st Strip joining in
last row as follows: 4 sc, ch 5, 4 sc in large loop, * 1 sc, ch 4,
1 sc in next ch 1 space, 2 sc in next ch 1 space, repeat from * 3
times, 1 sc, ch 4, 1 sc in next loop, 4 sc in next loop, ch 2, join to
corresponding loop of 1st half of 1st strip (1st ch 5 loop at side end
of strip), working along sides of both strips, ch 2, 4 sc in same loop
of 2nd strip, 1 sc, ch 4, 1 sc in next loop, * 4 sc in next loop, ch 2,
skip next ch 4 loop, join to next ch 5 loop of 1st strip, ch 2, 4 sc in
same loop of 2nd strip, 1 sc, ch 4, 1 sc in next loop, repeat from * 29
times, cut yarn.

=2nd Strip--2nd Half=: With wrong side of work toward you attach yarn
in last dc of 2nd row of 1st half, * ch 1, dc next st, repeat from * 8
times, ch 5, join in 3rd st of ch at beginning of 2nd row, ch 1, turn.

=3rd Row=: 4 sc in large loop, ch 2, join to corresponding loop of
opposite strip, ch 2, 4 sc in same loop, * 1 sc, ch 4, 1 sc in next ch
1 space, 2 sc in next ch 1 space, repeat from * once, 1 sc, ch 4, 1 sc
in next ch 1 space, 1 sc in next ch 1 space, ch 7, turn, skip 2 sc, the
ch 4 and 2 sc, sl st in next sc, ch 3, turn, work 8 dc over loop, ch 3,
sl st in same loop, sc in next ch 1 space already worked in, 1 sc, ch
4, 1 sc in next ch 1 space, 2 sc in next ch 1 space, ch 5, turn.

=4th Row=: Skip 2 sc, ch 4 and 2 sc, dc in next ch 3 loop, * ch 1, dc
in next st, repeat from * 8 times, ch 5, skip 1 sc, ch 4 and 2 sc, sl
st in next sc, ch 1, turn.

Repeat the 3rd and 4th rows until there are 32 scallops.

=Next Row=: Work same as last row of 2nd half of 1st strip. Work 6 more
strips in same manner.

=Fringe=: Wind yarn over an 8¹⁄₂ inch cardboard. Cut one end. Using 6
strands, double in half and knot through each of the 5 picots at lower
edge of each strip.




Transcriber’s Notes

In the original, some instructions and/or illustrations were split
and continued onto the final pages. These have been recombined for
convenience.

The note explaining the meaning of * and ** throughout has been
relocated to the start for convenience.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STOLES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
